### The OpenStreetMap Project

In the next classroom concepts, you will write a course project in C++ using 
real map data and `A* search` to find a path between two points, just as you 
might see in a desktop or mobile mapping application. The project you 
will will write will be using data from the [OpenStreetMap project](https://www.openstreetmap.org/#map=3/71.34/-96.82).

The OpenStreetMap project is an open source, collaborative endeavor to create 
free, user-generated maps of every part of the world. These maps are similar 
to the maps you might use in Google Maps or the Apple Maps app on your phone, 
but they are completely generated by individuals who volunteer to perform 
ground surveys of their local environment.

#### The Data
OpenStreetMap data can come in several different formats. The data that 
is used for this project comes in the form of an OSM XML file (.osm file).

#### Data Types Overview
If you look closely at the XML element types in the sample above, you should see the 
three element types which are important to the code you will be writing: 
Nodes, Ways, and Relations.

**Node**: A node is one of the most basic elements in the OpenStreetMap data 
model. Each node indicates a single point with an identifier 
id, latitude lat, and longitude lon. There are other XML attributes in a 
node element that won't be relevant to this project, such as the user id and the 
timestamp when the node was added to the data set. Additionally, a 
node can have several tags which provide additional information.

**Way**:  way is an ordered list of nodes that represents a feature 
in the map. This feature could be a road, or a boundary of a park, or some 
other feature in the map. Each way has at least one 
tag which denotes some information about the way, and each way also 
belongs to at least one relation, which is described below.

**Relation**: A relation is a data structure which documents a relationship 
between other data elements. Examples from the OpenStreetMap wiki include:
> - A route relation which lists the ways that form a major highway, cycle route 
or bus route.
> - A multipolygon that describes an area with holes where the outer and inner 
boundaries of the area are given by two ways. 

#### Example:
To help you understand how all these types are used together, consider the 
following example from the OpenStreetMap wiki of mapping a large 
river with distinct banks on either side of the river. In the image below, 
nodes are used to provide the coordinates of points along the banks of the 
river. Multiple nodes are then connected using ways; there are ways which form closed 
sections of the river, labeled as "Areas" in the image below. Another way is 
used to represent the island in the middle of the river. These ways are 
then grouped together using a relation, which represents the entire river.

[River](river.PNG)

